What are the steps in
the Machine Learning Process?
We will discuss those in this lecture.
After this video, you will be able
to identify the steps in the machine
learning process and discuss why
the machine learning process is iterative.
This diagram illustrates the steps
in the machine learning process.
In this lecture,
we will cover an overview of these steps.
In the next lecture,
we will cover each step in more detail.
It should be kept in mind that all of
these steps need to be carried out with
a clear purpose in mind.
That is, the problem or opportunity that
is being addressed must be defined with
clearly stated goals and objectives.
For example,
the purpose of a project may be to study
customer purchasing behavior to come up
with a more effective marketing strategy
in order to increase sales revenue.
The purpose behind the project will
drive the machine learning process.
The first step in the machine
learning process is to get
all available data related
to the problem at hand.
Here, we need to identify all data
sources, collect the data, and
finally integrate data from
these multiple sources.
The next step in the machine learning
process is to prepare the data.
This step is further divided into two
parts, explore data and pre-process data.
The first part of data preparation
involves preliminary exploration
of the data to understand the nature
of the data that we have to work with.
Things we want to understand about
the data are its characteristics, format,
and quality.
A good understanding of the data
leads to a more informed analysis and
a more successful outcome.
Once we know more about the data
through exploratory analysis,
the next part is pre-processing
of the data for analysis.
This includes cleaning data,
selecting the variables to use, and
transforming data to make the data more
suitable for analysis in the next step.
The prepared data then would be
passed on to the analysis step.
This step involves selecting
the analytical techniques to use,
building a model using the data,
and assessing the results.
Step four in the machine learning
process it to communicate results.
This includes evaluating the results with
respect to the goal set for the project.
presenting the results in
a easy to understand way and
communicating the results to others.
The last step is to apply the results.
This brings us back to
the purpose of the project.
How can the insights from our analysis
be used to provide effective marketing
to increase sales revenue?
Determining actions from insights gained
from analysis is the main
focus of the act step.
Note that the machine learning
process is a very iterative one.
Findings from one step may require
a previous step to be repeated
with new information.
For example, during the prepare step, we
may find some data quality issues that may
require us to go back to the acquire
step to address some issues with data
collection or to get additional data that
we didn't include in the first go around.
Each step may also require
several iterations.
For example, it is common to try different
analysis techniques in the analyze step
in order to get reasonable
results from the model.
So, it is important to recognize that
this is a highly iterative process, and
not a linear one.